feat: add initial implementation (#1)
moxystudio/next-rest-api: README.md

# next-rest-api

[![NPM version][npm-image]][npm-url] [![Downloads][downloads-image]][npm-url] [![Build Status][travis-image]][travis-url] [![Coverage Status][codecov-image]][codecov-url] [![Dependency status][david-dm-image]][david-dm-url] [![Dev Dependency status][david-dm-dev-image]][david-dm-dev-url]

[npm-url]:https://npmjs.org/package/@moxy/next-rest-api
[downloads-image]:https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@moxy/next-rest-api.svg
[npm-image]:https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@moxy/next-rest-api.svg
[travis-url]:https://travis-ci.org/moxystudio/next-rest-api
[travis-image]:https://img.shields.io/travis/moxystudio/next-rest-api/master.svg
[codecov-url]:https://codecov.io/gh/moxystudio/next-rest-api
[codecov-image]:https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/moxystudio/next-rest-api/master.svg
[david-dm-url]:https://david-dm.org/moxystudio/next-rest-api
[david-dm-image]:https://img.shields.io/david/moxystudio/next-rest-api.svg
[david-dm-dev-url]:https://david-dm.org/moxystudio/next-rest-api?type=dev
[david-dm-dev-image]:https://img.shields.io/david/dev/moxystudio/next-rest-api.svg

> Library that makes it easier to develop REST APIs in [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Aims to ease the development of REST APIs in [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/).
```

Peaky english suggestion 😛

## Motivation

> Next.js brought API routes support in v9, but you have to provide your own implementation of handling different HTTP methods, validation, error handling and so on. So in short, this library provides:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next.js brought API routes support in v9, but you have to provide your own implementation for handling different HTTP methods, validation, error handling and so on. So in short, this library provides:
```

> - A standard way to detect HTTP methods (GET, POST, PUT, PATCH, DELETE, etc).

Author: Done!

- A standard way to validate the request (headers, query, body).
- A standard way to deal with errors, including their responses.
- A standard way to log errors to `stderr`.

## Installation

```sh

> $ npm install --save @moxy/next-rest-api @hapi/joi @hapi/boom

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ npm install @moxy/next-rest-api @hapi/joi @hapi/boom
```
Do we need `--save`?

> $ npm install --save @moxy/next-rest-api @hapi/joi @hapi/boom

Author: Joi & Boom are used in the app to define schemas and throw errors respectively, meaning they are dependencies of your app. Thus, I define them as peer dependencies to state you should install them yourself and the versions I'm compatible with.

The only way to make them regular dependencies, would be to export Joi and Boom so that you could use a named import to get them. However, I don't really like that.

> $ npm install --save @moxy/next-rest-api @hapi/joi @hapi/boom

Reviewer 2: Alright, having the option to use different versions of joi and boom is a valid use point. But I still feel like adding them to the `dependencies` instead would be better 😄

> $ npm install --save @moxy/next-rest-api @hapi/joi @hapi/boom

Author: I will keep them as peer dependency as they are actually dependencies that should be installed in the "host".. in this case, the app.

```

This library has a peer-dependency on [`@hapi/joi`](https://github.com/hapijs/joi) and [`@hapi/boom`](https://github.com/hapijs/boom) to perform validation and to output errors in a standard format.

## Usage

### Simple get endpoint:

> In `/pages/api/products.js` (or `/pages/api/products/index.js`)

Author: Yes we can do that, but this is how the Next.js docs state to do. In our boilerplate however, we have the API in the root where these files export files located in `/api`.

        return products;
    },
});
```

## Simple get & post endpoint, with validation:

In `/pages/api/products.js` (or `/pages/api/products/index.js`)

```js
import withRest, { withValidation } from '@moxy/next-rest-api';
import Joi from '@hapi/joi';
import Boom from '@hapi/boom';

const getSchema = {
    query: Joi.object({
        q: Joi.string(),
        sortBy: Joi.valid('price:asc', 'price:desc'),
    });
};

const postSchema = {
    body: Joi.object({
        name: Joi.string().max(200).required(),
        description: Joi.string().max(2000),
        price: Joi.number().min(0).required(),
    });
};

export default withRest({
    GET: withValidation(getSchema)(async (req, res) => {
        const products = await listProducts(req.query);

        return products;
    }),
    POST: withValidation(postSchema)(async (req, res) => {
        const product = await createProduct(req.body);

        return product;
    },
});
```

ℹ️ You may use [`p-pipe`](https://github.com/sindresorhus/p-pipe) to compose your "middlewares" to be more readable, like so:

```js
export default withRest({
    GET: pPipe(
        withValidation(getSchema),
        async (req, res) => {

>             const products = await listProducts(req.query);

Reviewer: Why not returning the promise?

In this scenario we have a promise wrapped within another promise. I understand that this might be useful when we can get the promise rejected before the `await`. But here it is not the case. This might be useful to just improve the code readability as well

Author: Yes I could return the promise directly, but I wanted to make clear that we can use `async` & `await`. I'm happy to change if others feel the same.

Reviewer: I would prefer to return the promise, but I accept the code readability point of view as well.

Author: I will keep the async & await for comprehension. Point taken though.

        } catch (err) {
            if (err.code === 'NOT_FOUND') {
                throw Boom.notFound(`Product with id ${req.query.id} does not exist`);
            }

            throw err;
        }

        return product;
    }),
    PUT: withValidation(putSchema)(async (req, res) => {
        let product;

        try {
            product = await updateProduct(req.query.id, req.body);
        } catch (err) {
            if (err.code === 'NOT_FOUND') {
                throw Boom.notFound(`Product with id ${req.query.id} does not exist`);
            }

            throw err;
        }

        return product;
    }),
    DELETE: withValidation(deleteSchema)(async (req, res) => {
        try {
            product = await deleteProduct(req.query.id);
        } catch (err) {
            if (err.code === 'NOT_FOUND') {
                return;
            }

            throw err;
        }
    },
});
```

ℹ️ A lot of schemas in the above examples are being repeated. To keep things DRY, it's advisable to reuse them, perhaps in a `schemas.js` file.

## API

### withRest(methods, [options])

Matches handlers defined in `methods` against the HTTP method, like `get` or `post`.

> Handlers may return any valid JSON as per the [RFC7159](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7159), which includes objects, arrays, booleans and null. The return value will be sent automatically as a JSON response.

Reviewer 2: You return `undefined` in the examples, so maybe replace "null" with "null or undefined"?

Author: Agree

        try {
            product = await deleteProduct(req.query.id);
        } catch (err) {
            if (err.code === 'NOT_FOUND') {
                return;
            }

            throw err;
        }
    },
});
```

ℹ️ A lot of schemas in the above examples are being repeated. To keep things DRY, it's advisable to reuse them, perhaps in a `schemas.js` file.

## API

### withRest(methods, [options])

Matches handlers defined in `methods` against the HTTP method, like `get` or `post`.

Handlers may return any valid JSON as per the [RFC7159](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7159), which includes objects, arrays, booleans and null. The return value will be sent automatically as a JSON response.

Exceptions thrown within handlers will be caught automatically and sent to the client. You may either throw a [Boom](https://github.com/hapijs/boom) error or a standard error object. If a standard error object is thrown, it will be converted to a Boom error instance automatically (`500`).

#### methods

Type: `object`

An object where keys are HTTP methods (uppercase) and values are the handlers with the signature `async (req, res) => {}`.

#### options

Type: `object`

> > ℹ️ You may pass any of the supported `react-intl`'s [`<IntlProvider>`](https://github.com/formatjs/react-intl/blob/master/docs/Components.md#intlprovider) props as well, except for `locale` and `messages`.

Reviewer 3: Was this a copy from other repo? 😅

Author: Oops
